>> Brian Holt: Again, this is largely
coming from the expensive render function.
If you turn that off,
this actually works really well, but
I'm sure you can imagine, like, just that,
even on this, really fast MacBook,
it's just like that slider is just like,
not moving, super great.
This would cause a lot of
jank in other parts of.
For a UI, imagine if you had a video
playing on another part of it,
you would definitely see
some jank on that as well.
But notice that the actual value and
the deferred value are the same thing.
That's because they're literally
the same thing at the moment.
So let's go and actually fix this
now with use deferred value.
So let's go look at my notes really quick.
Yeah, I mentioned this before.
In the past, you would have
had to use like, throttle or
debounce to essentially just delay in
this until you actually were happy at
the value that settled that great
article on what this is on CSS tricks.
If you want to get really into
the depth of what that is.
I refer to it probably at least a yearly,
like the annual, Brian needs
to use throttle and bounce, and
can't remember which one it's a holiday.
But we're gonna use use deferred value,
which actually makes this
way easier to deal with.
Okay, so we're gonna usedeferredvalue
here to basically say like
these are like low priority renderings.
When you finish everything and
you like that's high priority.
So I guess that bears mentioning
everything by default in react is a high
priority render and
you can only mark things as low priority.
When you do useDeferredValue,
use optimistic transitions,
all those things you're basically
saying I am explicitly marking this as
less important than other
things that you're rendering.
So that's what we're gonna do right now.
We are gonna go use deferred
value to do just that.
So used the deferred value.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then
underneath here we're gonna say const,
deferred blur equals use deferred value.
Blur, not blue, a blur.
And then we're just going to
have a bunch of these, I mean,
I guess you can again come in here and
say, I don't need sonnet with thinking.
I think I just need sonnet,
give me a deferred value for
each of my hooks
>> Brian Holt: Pretty good, right?
Feel like I missed one.
No that's correct,
because I already did one of them.
Deferred brightness, deferred contrast,
divert saturated sepia,
brightness, contrast, saturates,
saturate sepia, okay?
And then all of these,
we just got to replace with this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
for contrast, saturate,
sepia, those kind of things.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I mean, everything
else essentially stays the same.
The only thing that's gonna be different
here is now we're gonna have like just so
you can see the difference here.
Deferred brightness, deferred contrast,
deferred saturate and deferred sepia.
>> Brian Holt: But
now if we go look at our app over here.
You can see that we still
got the jank on the slider.
That's somewhat intended, but
you can see that we have
these delays essentially.
And we can actually make this much
better if we go in and say memo on here,
right, import memo from React.
Cause again, this is still changing,
which is still causing
the re-render of display image.
So we need to be explicitly say,
don't change this unless this is changed,
which is if.
Because we're using deferred
values here in our filter style,
this isn't gonna change until
one of the values changes.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
here we're gonna say memo.
>> Brian Holt: And now,
if we come back over here.
This is gonna look way better, I notice
that it's not updating every single time.
Look at that last render, it only does
it when it finally stops updating and
you kind of get the lose some of the nice
effect of it updating in real time.
But I think that's verbal to jink.
Because again, if we got rid of jink and
we just made this one,
much more pleasant experience that way,
right?
But you can see there's even a little
bit of updating and delay there.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that is a used deferred value.
So it allows you to basically lag
those kind of things until the react
compiler can catch up so
that you cause less jank in your UI.
But you can see I had to use
this in concert with memo or
else it was still pointless because it
was still updating at the parent level.
Yeah, and again, this is memoized.
If we look at app.jsx,
this will be the same between renders,
so therefore the memoization will
work correctly because this will
only be using the deferred values.
Yep, so anytime you have these heavy
computations and you're really trying to
avoid re-rendering them, but
the values could update frequently.
That kind of problem space
is where the deferred values
end up being super helpful.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and
like I mentioned previously,
what's nice about this is like on a fast
computer, this will update a lot.
If you're on a very slow computer,
it'll update less frequently,
we don't have to write any
logic to accommodate that.
React just kind of takes care of it for
us.
That's really the what's special
about use deferred value.